README.md, before:

# otlp2parquet

[![CI](https://github.com/smithclay/otlp2parquet/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/smithclay/otlp2parquet/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

> Put your observability data in cost-effective cloud object storage, servers optional.

`otlp2parquet` ingests OpenTelemetry logs, metrics, and traces and stores them in object storage as Parquet files. It runs natively in serverless runtimes like AWS Lambda and Cloudflare Workers. With [some optimization](#notes-on-batch-sizes) and using a duckdb client, this is likely one of the cheapest ways to store and query structured observability data in the cloud with long-term retention.

While functional, the project is experimental as the [API and schema are evolving](#parquet-schema-for-logs-metrics-and-traces). It is _not_ a telemetry pipeline: in production scenarios, it would be paired with [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/), [Vector](https://vector.dev/), Cribl, or similar to perform transformations, routing, and batching.

**Key Features:**
*   Ingests OTLP HTTP (protobuf, JSON, or JSONL) for logs, metrics, and traces.
*   Writes Parquet files for [easy and efficient querying in duckdb](https://duckdb.org/docs/stable/data/parquet/overview).**
*   Supports Docker, Cloudflare Workers (WASM, paid-tier), and AWS Lambda deployments.
*   Small and fast: written in Rust, uncompressed binary size is ~5 MB.

_Note: If you want to query or convert existing OTLP files, you can use the [otlp-duckdb](https://github.com/smithclay/duckdb-otlp) extension. This project is focused on converting streaming OTLP data._
## Platform & Feature Matrix

| Feature / Platform | Docker (Server) | Cloudflare Workers | AWS Lambda |
| :----------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- | :--------- |
| **OTLP Protocol Support** | | | |
| OTLP/HTTP-JSON | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| OTLP/HTTP-Protobuf | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| OTLP/gRPC | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| **Signal Support** | | | |
| OTLP Logs | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| OTLP Metrics | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| OTLP Traces | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| OTLP Profiles | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| **Security*** | | | |
| Basic Auth Header | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ |
| **Advanced Features** | | | |
| In-Memory Batching | ✅ | ❌** | ❌** |

## Documentation

For deployment instructions, usage examples, and detailed guides:

➡️ [**View Documentation**](https://smithclay.github.io/otlp2parquet/)

## Notes on batch sizes

Lots of small writes to cloud object storage will explode your bill: proceed with caution.

In serverless environments, batching must be handled by an upstream agent like the [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector) or [Vector](https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector) to optimize performance and cost ([see example configuration](docs/get-started/usage.md#batching-with-opentelemetry-collector)).

## Parquet Schema for logs, metrics, and traces

The current schema is based on the ClickHouse OpenTelemetry exporter schema, similar to the [duckdb-otlp extension](https://github.com/smithclay/duckdb-otlp). This project serves as a bridge to the official [OpenTelemetry Arrow Protocol](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow) (OTAP) protocol under active development.

We plan to converge with the official protocol once it becomes generally available, which will make much of the OTLP->Arrow translation this tool does unnecessary.

## Related projects

Below are other projects that also have support for converting OTLP to Parquet format.

- https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-rust
- https://github.com/Mooncake-Labs/moonlink
- https://github.com/streamfold/rotel

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Developer Documentation](docs/developers/index.md) for guidelines on how to contribute.

## License

Apache-2.0

Commit message:

feat: write to per-schema iceberg tables

README.md, after:

# otlp2parquet

[![CI](https://github.com/smithclay/otlp2parquet/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/smithclay/otlp2parquet/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

> Put your observability data in cost-effective cloud object storage, servers optional.

`otlp2parquet` ingests OpenTelemetry logs, metrics, and traces and stores them in object storage as regular parquet files (with or without Apache Iceberg). It runs natively in serverless runtimes like AWS Lambda and Cloudflare Workers. With [some optimization](#notes-on-batch-sizes) and using a duckdb client, this is likely one of the cheapest ways to store and query structured observability data in the cloud with long-term retention.

While functional, the project is experimental as the [API and schema are evolving](#parquet-schema-for-logs-metrics-and-traces). It is _not_ a telemetry pipeline: in production scenarios, it would be paired with [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/), [Vector](https://vector.dev/), Cribl, or similar to perform transformations, routing, and batching.

**Key Features:**
*   Ingests OTLP HTTP (protobuf, JSON, or JSONL) for logs, metrics, and traces.
*   Writes Parquet files for [easy and efficient querying in duckdb](https://duckdb.org/docs/stable/data/parquet/overview).**
*   Supports Docker, Cloudflare Workers (WASM, paid-tier), and AWS Lambda deployments.
*   Small and fast: written in Rust, uncompressed binary size is ~5 MB.

_Note: If you want to query or convert existing OTLP files, you can use the [otlp-duckdb](https://github.com/smithclay/duckdb-otlp) extension. This project is focused on converting streaming OTLP data._
## Platform & Feature Matrix

| Feature / Platform | Docker (Server) | Cloudflare Workers | AWS Lambda |
| :----------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- | :--------- |
| **OTLP Protocol Support** | | | |
| OTLP/HTTP-JSON | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| OTLP/HTTP-Protobuf | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| OTLP/gRPC | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| **Signal Support** | | | |
| OTLP Logs | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| OTLP Metrics | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| OTLP Traces | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| OTLP Profiles | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ |
| **Storage Support** | | | |
| Parquet | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Iceberg (REST Catalog API) | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| **Security*** | | | |
| Basic Auth Header | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ |
| **Advanced Features** | | | |
| In-Memory Batching | ✅ | ❌** | ❌** |

## Documentation

For deployment instructions, usage examples, and detailed guides:

➡️ [**View Documentation**](https://smithclay.github.io/otlp2parquet/)

## Notes on file sizes

Lots of small files written to cloud object storage will explode your bill and impact perforamnce: proceed with caution. Depending on your platform, some Apache Iceberg-compatible solutions (like [S3 table buckets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/s3-tables-tables.html)) can be configured to [compact parquet files automatically](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/storage/how-amazon-s3-tables-use-compaction-to-improve-query-performance-by-up-to-3-times/) to improve performance.

In serverless environments, batching must be handled by an upstream agent like the [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector) or [Vector](https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector) to optimize performance and cost ([see example configuration](docs/get-started/usage.md#batching-with-opentelemetry-collector)).

## Parquet Schema for logs, metrics, and traces

The current schema is based on the ClickHouse OpenTelemetry exporter schema, similar to the [duckdb-otlp extension](https://github.com/smithclay/duckdb-otlp). This project serves as a bridge to the official [OpenTelemetry Arrow Protocol](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow) (OTAP) protocol under active development.

We plan to converge with the official protocol once it becomes generally available, which will make much of the OTLP->Arrow translation this tool does unnecessary.

## Related projects

Below are other projects that also have support for converting OTLP to Parquet format.

- https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-rust
- https://github.com/Mooncake-Labs/moonlink
- https://github.com/streamfold/rotel

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Developer Documentation](docs/developers/index.md) for guidelines on how to contribute.

## License

Apache-2.0
